---
layout: post
title: "SOLID"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Back to school, how I improved with
##SOLID

1. Single Responsibility Prinicipal -
This for me personally is the most intuitive and easy to understand
But application of this principal in your code would result in a
whole lot of improvement.

It just demands that whenever you write code for a method, make sure
that the method has only one job. If its job is to print some
variable, it should only and only print that variable. Putting too
many jobs in one method, will not only make the code unreadable, it
is actually difficult to edit that code later on. t

One of the hardest part of ptrogramming is naming things. SRP
actually makes this easier.

So to demystify them, let's take the first one, The Single
Responsibility Principle, it's a nice word, the flows real well SRP,
Single Responsibility Principle, what does it mean? It means that a
software module should have one reason to change, then that's what I
call a responsibility, a reason to change. So for example, take a
payroll application, if there's an employee class in that payroll
application, you could imagine that it might have methods for
calculate pay or perhaps another method for print a report, perhaps
another method in the employee object for save me to the database,
and what's unfortunate about these three methods existing in the same
class is that they have all three completely different reasons to
change. The payroll, the calculate pay will change if the accountants
decides on a new way of calculating pay. The report generator will
change if the people who consume the reports want the format of the
reports to change. The save function will change if the DBA's decide
that we needto change the database's schema. That means that this one
class has three different reasons to change and there are probably
many other classes that depend upon it and so as it changes those
depending classes also suffer through change, they'll be effective or
impacted by those changes. So the Responsibility Principle simply
says, "Find one reason to change and take everything else out of the
class." So that you separate the things that change for different
reasons, you group together the things to change for the same reasons.
This is somewhat out of the norm for object oriented design, early
object oriented design principles had as grouping together functions
that operated on the same data structures so that the methods of a
class would all manipulate the same variables of that class, but if
those methods change for different reasons then they really belong in
separate classes.
